[workers] Add airtable form tutorial (#1540)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/workers/src/content/tutorials/handle-form-submissions-with-airtable/index.md

---
updated: 2021-06-09
difficulty: Beginner

> content_type: "📝 Tutorial"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pcx-content-type: "tutorial"
```

> content_type: "📝 Tutorial"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
content_type: "📝 Tutorial"
pcx-content-type: "tutorial"
```

---

import TutorialsBeforeYouStart from "../../_partials/_tutorials-before-you-start.md"

# Handle form submissions with Airtable

<TutorialsBeforeYouStart/>

## Overview

Cloudflare Workers excels as a performant serverless functions platform. This makes it a great fit for handling form submissions from your front-end applications, particularly when you need to send those submissions to an external API or database.

> In this tutorial, we'll use Workers and [Airtable](https://airtable.com) to persist form submissions from a front-end user interface. Airtable is a great, free-to-use spreadsheet solution that has an approachable API for developers. Workers will handle incoming form submissions, and use Airtable's [REST API](https://airtable.com/api) to asynchronously persist the data in an Airtable "base" (Airtable's term for a spreadsheet) for later reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will use Workers and [Airtable](https://airtable.com) to persist form submissions from a front-end user interface. Airtable is a great, free-to-use spreadsheet solution that has an approachable API for developers. Workers will handle incoming form submissions, and use Airtable's [REST API](https://airtable.com/api) to asynchronously persist the data in an Airtable "base" (Airtable's term for a spreadsheet) for later reference.
```

![Example GIF of complete Airtable and serverless function integration](./example.gif)

[The source for this project can be found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form)—note that this codebase includes both a front-end component (built with [React](https://reactjs.org) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)), as well as a serverless function for handling the interaction with Airtable. 

**The front-end portion of this site does not require any specific React experience.** It uses a basic HTML5 form, showing that you can use Workers to handle any kind of form, whether entirely in HTML, or client-side, JS-heavy forms, such as with React or other front-end frameworks.

## Create a form

To recap the basics of HTML5 forms, a `form` element generally contains an `action` attribute, which indicates the URL that the form will submit to. For instance, the below `form` will submit data to the path `/new_submission`:

```html
<form action="/new_submission">
  <input type="text" name="first_name" id="first_name"></input>
  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

<Aside>

> If you're unfamiliar with HTML5 forms, the Mozilla Developer Network's ["Web Forms - Working with user data"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms) is a great beginner's guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with HTML5 forms, the Mozilla Developer Network's ["Web Forms - Working with user data"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms) is a great beginner's guide.
```

> If you are unfamiliar with HTML5 forms, the Mozilla Developer Network's ["Web Forms - Working with user data"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms) is a great beginner's guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with HTML5 forms, the Mozilla Developer Network's ["Web Forms - Working with user data"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms) is a great guide for beginners.
```

</Aside>

To pass data _inside_ of the form, you can use `input` tags. `input` tags have a `type`, which specifies how the `input` should render, and what kind of data it contains. When an `input` has a `name` attribute, the `form` will submit that data to the provided `action` URL, matching that `name` attribute. 

<Aside>

The `id` attribute, while not required for the `input` to be submitted as part of the `form`, is often set alongside the `name` attribute to enable styling via CSS.

</Aside>

> For example, if I fill in the `input[name=first_name]` with the text "Kristian", submitting the `form` via the "Submit" `button` will send the data `first_name=Kristian` to the `/new_submission` URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you fill in the `input[name=first_name]` with the text "Kristian", submitting the `form` via the "Submit" `button` will send the data `first_name=Kristian` to the `/new_submission` URL.
```

The `form` used in the example front-end UI builds on these basics, adding some CSS classes via Tailwind CSS, and adding the fields needed for a "Contact"-style form: "First name", "Last name", "Email", "Phone", "Subject", and "Message".

![The completed form in the front-end user interface](./ui.png)

> The code for this form can be [found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/frontend/src/Form.js). Of particular note is the `form` action, which has a placeholder for our serverless function URL, and the `method` attribute, which tells the form to submit using the [HTTP POST](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code for this form can be [found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/frontend/src/Form.js). Of particular note is the `form` action, which has a placeholder for your serverless function URL, and the `method` attribute, which tells the form to submit using the [HTTP POST](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) method. 
```

Some sample code is provided as an example below, including the first `input`, to show that the `name` is set to the value `first_name`, as well as the standard `button` with `type="submit"`:

```html
<form action="SERVERLESS_FN_URL" method="POST" class="...">
  <div>
    <label for="first_name" class="...">
      First name
    </label>
    <div class="...">
      <input
        type="text"
        name="first_name"
        id="first_name"
        autocomplete="given-name"
        placeholder="Ellen"
        required
        class="..."
      />
    </div>
  </div>

  <!-- Rest of form -->

  <button type="submit" className="...">
    Submit
  </button>
</form>
```

> If you'd like to follow along with this example, you can directly copy the `form` code from the [`Form` component](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/frontend/src/Form.js) into your own project, or use the codebase and plug in your own serverless function, following the next section in the tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to follow along with this example, you can directly copy the `form` code from the [`Form` component](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/frontend/src/Form.js) into your own project, or use the codebase and plug in your own serverless function, following the next section in the tutorial. 
```

## Create a serverless function

> In order to handle the form submission, we'll create and deploy a Workers serverless function that parses the incoming form data and then prepares it for submission to Airtable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to handle the form submission, you will need to create and deploy a Workers serverless function that parses the incoming form data and then prepares it for submission to Airtable.
```

> To begin, use `wrangler` to generate a new function, called `airtable-form-handler`, and navigate to it in our terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, use `wrangler` to generate a new function, called `airtable-form-handler`, and navigate to it in your terminal:
```

```sh
---
header: Generating a new Workers function
---
$ wrangler generate airtable-form-handler
$ cd airtable-form-handler
```

<Aside>

> If you've chosen to work with the [sample codebase on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form), you can find a sample function in the `worker` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have chosen to work with the [sample codebase on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form), you can find a sample function in the `worker` directory.
```

</Aside>

In `wrangler.toml`, add your Cloudflare account ID:

<Aside>

> [Check out our Quick Start guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/get-started/guide#7-configure-your-project-for-deployment) if you're unsure where to find your Cloudflare Account ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Check out our Quick Start guide](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/get-started/guide#7-configure-your-project-for-deployment) if you are unsure where to find your Cloudflare Account ID.
```

</Aside>

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
highlight: [4]
---
name = "airtable-form-handler"
type = "javascript"

account_id = "yourAccountId"
```

## Configure an Airtable base

> When our serverless function is completed, it will send data up to an Airtable base via Airtable's REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your serverless function is completed, it will send data up to an Airtable base via Airtable's REST API.
```

> If you don't have an Airtable account, create one (the free plan is fine). In Airtable's dashboard, create a new base, choosing to "Start from scratch":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have an Airtable account, create one (the free plan is fine). In Airtable's dashboard, create a new base, choosing to *Start from scratch*:
```

> If you don't have an Airtable account, create one (the free plan is fine). In Airtable's dashboard, create a new base, choosing to *Start from scratch*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not have an Airtable account, create one (the free plan is sufficient). In Airtable's dashboard, create a new base, choosing to _Start from scratch_:
```

![Creating a new base in Airtable's user interface](./new-base.png)

> Once you've created a new base, you can set it up for use with the front-end form. Delete the existing columns, and create six columns, with the following "field types":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created a new base, you can set it up for use with the front-end form. Delete the existing columns, and create six columns, with the following "field types":
```

| Field name   | Airtable field type |
| ------------ | ------------------- |
| First Name   | "Single line text"  |
| Last Name    | "Single line text"  |
| Email        | "Email"             |
| Phone Number | "Phone number"      |
| Subject      | "Single line text"  |
| Message      | "Long text"         |

> The completed fields should look like the below screenshot in the Airtable UI. Note that the field names are case-sensitive: if you change them to anything else, you'll need to exactly match your new field names in the API request we make to Airtable later in the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The completed fields should look like the below screenshot in the Airtable UI. Note that the field names are case-sensitive: if you change them to anything else, you will need to exactly match your new field names in the API request we make to Airtable later in the tutorial.
```

![An example of the configured Airtable column headers in a table](./columns.png)

Finally, give your base's _table_ a name. Right-click the table name at the top left of the screen (it will likely have a name like "Table 1"), and give it a more descriptive name, like "Form Submissions".

![Renaming the Airtable table inside of the user interface](./form-submissions.png)

With our new Airtable base set up, we can grab the values from Airtable's UI that we need to make API requests.

Visit [Airtable's API page](https://airtable.com/api), and select your new base. In the API documentation page, find your **Airtable base ID** (the highlighted text in the below screenshot). You can also check the "show API key" checkbox in the top right of the window, to easily access your Airtable API key from the same page.

![The Airtable API documentation for a base, with the Airtable Base ID and a toggle for showing your Airtable API key highlighted](./api-details.png)

> Further down the page, you'll begin to see example requests, showing you how to authenticate with the Airtable API externally, by providing an `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer $API_KEY`. The key after `Bearer` is your Airtable API key—make sure to keep it a secret!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further down the page, you'll begin to see example requests, showing you how to authenticate with the Airtable API externally, by providing an `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer $API_KEY`. The key after `Bearer` is your Airtable API key—make sure to keep this private, and do not share your API key publicly.
```

> Further down the page, you'll begin to see example requests, showing you how to authenticate with the Airtable API externally, by providing an `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer $API_KEY`. The key after `Bearer` is your Airtable API key—make sure to keep this private, and do not share your API key publicly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further down the page, you will begin to see example requests, showing you how to authenticate with the Airtable API externally, by providing an `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer $API_KEY`. The key after `Bearer` is your Airtable API key—make sure to keep this private, and do not share your API key publicly.
```

![An example request in Airtable's API documentation, with the Airtable API key highlighted](./api-key.png)

> To make this API key available in your codebase, you can use the `wrangler secret` command. The `secret` command encrypts and stores environment variables for use in your function, without revealing them to users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make this API key available in your codebase, use the `wrangler secret` command. The `secret` command encrypts and stores environment variables for use in your function, without revealing them to users. 
```

Run `wrangler secret put`, passing `AIRTABLE_API_KEY` as the name of your secret:

```sh
---
header: Setting the AIRTABLE_API_KEY secret with Wrangler
---
$ wrangler secret put AIRTABLE_API_KEY
Enter the secret text you would like assigned to the variable AIRTABLE_API_KEY on the script named airtable-form-handler:
******
🌀  Creating the secret for script name airtable-form-handler
✨  Success! Uploaded secret AIRTABLE_API_KEY.
```

> Before we continue, let's review the keys that we should have from Airtable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before continuing, review the keys that you should have from Airtable:
```

1. _Airtable Table Name:_ the name for your table, e.g. "Form Submissions".
2. _Airtable Base ID:_ the alphanumeric base ID found at the top of your base's API page.
3. _Airtable API Key:_ the private API key found in example API requests on the Airtable API documentation page.

## Submit data to Airtable

> With our Airtable base set up, and the keys and IDs we need to communicate with the API at the ready, it's time to set up our Workers function, and persist data from our form into Airtable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With your Airtable base set up, and the keys and IDs you need to communicate with the API at the ready, it is time to set up our Workers function, and persist data from your form into Airtable.
```

> In `index.js`, begin by setting up a simple Workers handler that can respond to requests. When the URL requested has a pathname of `/submit`, we'll handle a new form submission, otherwise, we'll redirect to `FORM_URL`, a constant representing your front-end form URL (for example, [workers-airtable-form.pages.dev](https://workers-airtable-form.pages.dev/)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `index.js`, begin by setting up a simple Workers handler that can respond to requests. When the URL requested has a pathname of `/submit`, we will handle a new form submission, otherwise, we will redirect to `FORM_URL`, a constant representing your front-end form URL (for example, [workers-airtable-form.pages.dev](https://workers-airtable-form.pages.dev/)):
```

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
addEventListener('fetch', event => {
  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request))
})

const FORM_URL = "https://workers-airtable-form.pages.dev"

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const url = new URL(request.url)

  if (url.pathname === "/submit") {
    return submitHandler(request)
  }

  return new Response.redirect(FORM_URL)
}
```

> The `submitHandler` has two functions—first, it will parse the form data coming from our HTML5 form. Once the data is parsed, we'll use the Airtable API to persist a new _row_ (a new form submission) to our table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `submitHandler` has two functions. First, it will parse the form data coming from our HTML5 form. Once the data is parsed, use the Airtable API to persist a new _row_ (a new form submission) to your table:
```

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
const submitHandler = async request => {
  if (request.method !== "POST") {
    return new Response("Method Not Allowed", {
      status: 405
    })
  }

  const body = await request.formData();

  const {
    first_name,
    last_name,
    email,
    phone,
    subject,
    message
  } = Object.fromEntries(body)

  // The keys in "fields" are case-sensitive, and
  // should exactly match the field names you set up 
  // in your Airtable table, such as "First Name". 
  const reqBody = {
    fields: {
      "First Name": first_name,
      "Last Name": last_name,
      "Email": email,
      "Phone Number": phone,
      "Subject": subject,
      "Message": message
    }
  }

  await createAirtableRecord(reqBody)
  return Response.redirect(FORM_URL)
}
```

> While the majority of this function is concerned with parsing the request _body_ (the data being sent as part of the request), there are two important things to note. First, if the HTTP method sent to this function _isn't_ `POST`, we'll return a new response with the status code of [`405 Method Not Allowed`](https://httpstatuses.com/405). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the majority of this function is concerned with parsing the request _body_ (the data being sent as part of the request), there are two important things to note. First, if the HTTP method sent to this function _isn't_ `POST`, it will return a new response with the status code of [`405 Method Not Allowed`](https://httpstatuses.com/405). 
```

The variable `reqBody` represents a collection of _fields_, which are key-value pairs for each column in our Airtable table. By formatting `reqBody` as an object with a collection of fields, we're creating a new record in our table with a value for each field.

> After we call `createAirtableRecord` (the function we'll define next), we'll redirect the client back to our `FORM_URL`. This function can be changed; for instance, it can redirect to a "Thank You" page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After calling `createAirtableRecord` (defined below), it will redirect the client back to your `FORM_URL`. This function can be changed; for instance, it can redirect to a "Thank You" page.
```

The `createAirtableRecord` function accepts a `body` parameter, which conforms to the Airtable API's required format—namely, a JavaScript object containing key-value pairs under `fields`, representing a single record to be created on our table:

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
const createAirtableRecord = body => {
  return fetch(`https://api.airtable.com/v0/${AIRTABLE_BASE_ID}/${encodeURIComponent(AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME)}`, {
    method: 'POST',
    body: JSON.stringify(body),
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${AIRTABLE_API_KEY}`,
      'Content-type': `application/json`
    }
  })
}
```

> To make an authenticated request to Airtable, we need to provide three constants that represent data about our Airtable account, base, and table name. We've already set `AIRTABLE_API_KEY` using `wrangler secret`, since it's a value that should be encrypted. The _Airtable base ID_ and _table name_ are values that can be publicly shared in places like GitHub. We can use Wrangler's `vars` feature to pass public environment variables from `wrangler.toml`. Add a `vars` table at the end of your `wrangler.toml` file, as seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make an authenticated request to Airtable, you need to provide three constants that represent data about your Airtable account, base, and table name. We've already set `AIRTABLE_API_KEY` using `wrangler secret`, since it's a value that should be encrypted. The _Airtable base ID_ and _table name_ are values that can be publicly shared in places like GitHub. We can use Wrangler's `vars` feature to pass public environment variables from `wrangler.toml`. Add a `vars` table at the end of your `wrangler.toml` file, as seen below:
```

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
highlight: [7]
---
name = "workers-airtable-form"
type = "javascript"

account_id = "yourAccountId"
workers_dev = true

[vars]
AIRTABLE_BASE_ID = "exampleBaseId"
AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME = "Form Submissions"
```

> With all these fields submitted, it's time to deploy your Workers serverless function, and get your form communicating with it. First, publish your function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With all these fields submitted, it's time to deploy your Workers serverless function and get your form communicating with it. First, publish your function:
```

> With all these fields submitted, it's time to deploy your Workers serverless function and get your form communicating with it. First, publish your function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all these fields submitted, it is time to deploy your Workers serverless function and get your form communicating with it. First, publish your function:
```

```sh
---
header: Publishing the serverless function
---
$ wrangler publish
✨  Built successfully, built project size is 10 KiB.
✨  Successfully published your script to
 https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev
```

> You'll notice that your function is deployed to a unique URL—for instance, `https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev`. This represents the first part of your front-end form's `action` attribute—the second part is the _path_ for our form handler, which is `/submit`. In your front-end UI, configure your `form` tag as seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will notice that your function is deployed to a unique URL—for instance, `https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev`. This represents the first part of your front-end form's `action` attribute—the second part is the _path_ for our form handler, which is `/submit`. In your front-end UI, configure your `form` tag as seen below:
```

```html
<form action="https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev/submit" method="POST" class="...">
<!-- The rest of your HTML form -->
```

> Once you've deployed your new form (we recommend [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.dev) for that), you should be able to submit a new form submission, and see the value show up immediately in Airtable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have deployed your new form (we recommend [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.dev) for that), you should be able to submit a new form submission, and see the value show up immediately in Airtable:
```

![Example GIF of complete Airtable and serverless function integration](./example.gif)

## Conclusion

> With that, you've created a Workers serverless function that can accept form submissions, and persist them to Airtable. Along the way, we've learned how to parse form data, set up environment variables, and use the `fetch` API to make requests to external services outside of our Workers function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that, you have created a Workers serverless function that can accept form submissions, and persist them to Airtable. Along the way, you have learned how to parse form data, set up environment variables, and use the `fetch` API to make requests to external services outside of our Workers function.
```

You can find the source for this project—both the front-end UI, as well as the serverless function that communicates with Airtable—[on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form).

> See what else you can build with Workers with some of our other tutorials below!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See what else you can build with Workers with some of our other tutorials below.
```

![Example GIF of complete Airtable and serverless function integration](./example.gif)

[The source for this project can be found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form)—note that this codebase includes both a front-end component (built with [React](https://reactjs.org) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)), as well as a serverless function for handling the interaction with Airtable. 

**The front-end portion of this site does not require any specific React experience.** It uses a basic HTML5 form, showing that you can use Workers to handle any kind of form, whether entirely in HTML, or client-side, JS-heavy forms, such as with React or other front-end frameworks.

## Create a form

To recap the basics of HTML5 forms, a `form` element generally contains an `action` attribute, which indicates the URL that the form will submit to. For instance, the below `form` will submit data to the path `/new_submission`:

```html
<form action="/new_submission">

>   <input type="text" name="first_name" id="first_name"></input>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <input type="text" name="first_name" id="first_name"/>
```

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

<Aside>

If you're unfamiliar with HTML5 forms, the Mozilla Developer Network's ["Web Forms - Working with user data"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms) is a great beginner's guide.

</Aside>

To pass data _inside_ of the form, you can use `input` tags. `input` tags have a `type`, which specifies how the `input` should render, and what kind of data it contains. When an `input` has a `name` attribute, the `form` will submit that data to the provided `action` URL, matching that `name` attribute. 

<Aside>

> The `id` attribute, while not required for the `input` to be submitted as part of the `form`, is often set alongside the `name` attribute to enable styling via CSS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `id` attribute, while not required for the `input` to be submitted as part of the `form`, is often set alongside the `name` attribute for CSS styling and for its related `<label for="">` counterpart.
```

</Aside>

> For example, if I fill in the `first_name` `input` with the text "Kristian", submitting the `form` via the "Submit" `button` will submit data to the URL `/new_submission` with the data `first_name=Hello`.
> 
> The `form` used in the example front-end UI builds on these basics, adding some CSS classes via Tailwind CSS, and adding the fields needed for a "Contact"-style form: "First name", "Last name", "Email", "Phone", "Subject", and "Message".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example, if I enter "Kristian" in the `first_name` text input, clicking the "Submit" button will submit the `<form>`, sending the `first_name=Kristian` payload string to the `/new_submission` URL destination.

The actual `<form>` we'll use for the rest of this tutorial, pictured below, builds on these basics, adding some CSS classes via Tailwind CSS. It also adds all the fields necessary for a "Contact"-style form: "First name", "Last name", "Email", "Phone", "Subject", and "Message".
```

![The completed form in the front-end user interface](./ui.png)

> The code for this form can be [found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/src/Form.js). Of particular note is the `form` action, which has a placeholder for our serverless function URL, and the `method` attribute, which tells the form to submit using an [HTTP POST](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code for this form can be [found on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form/blob/main/src/Form.js). Of particular note is the form's `action` attribute, which has a placeholder for our serverless function URL, and its `method` attribute, which tells the form to submit using an [HTTP POST](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST). 
```

Some sample code is provided as an example below, including the first `input`, to show that the `name` is set to the value `first_name`, as well as the standard `button` with `type="submit"`:

```html
<form action="SERVERLESS_FN_URL" method="POST" class="...">
  <div>
    <label for="first_name" class="...">
      First name
    </label>
    <div class="...">
      <input
        type="text"
        name="first_name"
        id="first_name"
        autocomplete="given-name"
        placeholder="Ellen"
        required
        class="..."
      />
    </div>
  </div>

  <!-- Rest of form -->

>   <button type="submit" className="...">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <button type="submit" class="...">
```

If you choose to work with the sample front-end codebase, you can delete the included directories that show a finished serverless function. The `worker` directory is the code for our Workers function, and `.github` contains a sample [GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/features/actions) for deploying the function when new code is committed to GitHub. Delete these directories by running the following command in your terminal:

```sh
---
header: Deleting Workers function sample code
---
$ rm -rf worker .github
```

## Create a serverless function

In order to handle the form submission, we'll create and deploy a Workers serverless function that parses the incoming form data, and prepares it for submission to Airtable.

To begin, use `wrangler` to generate a new function, called `airtable-form-handler`, and navigate to it in our terminal:

```sh
---
header: Generating a new Workers function
---
$ wrangler generate airtable-form-handler
$ cd airtable-form-handler
```

<Aside>

> If you've chosen to work with the [sample codebase on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form), you can run this command inside of the project directory, for instance, `workers-airtable-form`.

Reviewer 2: Not sure that this makes sense to me. If they cloned the sample, they already have the code & running `wrangler generate` inside the project is starting a new; so I don't follow why the sample codebase is mentioned here.

Author: The sample codebase is a CRA app with a `worker` directory inside of it - tho I'm considering moving it to use workspaces or something so the separation of projects is a little clearer

Reviewer 2: Right right, I guess what I'm trying to say is that I'm not sure why this aside is recommending to run `wrangler generate` from within the sample repo when it's already been done for (as the `/worker` directory)

Maybe should be something like: "If you're following along with the [sample codebase](), I ran `wrangler generate worker` to generate the `worker` directory found within the repository"

Author: removed a bunch of instructions here in favor of pointing people to the directory in the sample codebase - let me know what you think!!

Reviewer 2: Looks great 🎉

![An example of the configured Airtable column headers in a table](./columns.png)

Finally, give your base's _table_ a name. Right-click the table name at the top left of the screen (it will likely have a name like "Table 1"), and give it a more descriptive name, like "Form Submissions".

![Renaming the Airtable table inside of the user interface](./form-submissions.png)

With our new Airtable base set up, we can grab the values from Airtable's UI that we need to make API requests.

Visit [Airtable's API page](https://airtable.com/api), and select your new base. In the API documentation page, find your **Airtable base ID** (the highlighted text in the below screenshot). You can also check the "show API key" checkbox in the top right of the window, to easily access your Airtable API key from the same page.

![The Airtable API documentation for a base, with the Airtable Base ID and a toggle for showing your Airtable API key highlighted](./api-details.png)

> Further down the page, you'll begin to see example requests, showing you how to authenticate with the Airtable API externally, by providing an `Authorization` header in the format `Bearer $API_KEY`. The key after `Bearer` is your Airtable API key—make sure to keep it a secret!

Reviewer 2: Maybe move `wrangler secrets put` code block here?

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
import qs from 'qs'

addEventListener('fetch', event => {
  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request))
})

const FORM_URL = "https://workers-airtable-form.pages.dev"

async function handleRequest(request) {
  const url = new URL(request.url)

  if (url.pathname === "/submit") {
    return submitHandler(request)
  }

  return new Response.redirect(FORM_URL)
}
```

The `submitHandler` has two functions—first, it will parse the form data coming from our HTML5 form, using the `qs` library. Once the data is parsed, we'll use the Airtable API to persist a new _row_ (a new form submission) to our table:

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
const submitHandler = async request => {
  if (request.method !== "POST") {
    return new Response("Method Not Allowed", {
      status: 405
    })
  }

  const body = await request.text()

  const {
    first_name,
    last_name,
    email,
    phone,
    subject,
    message

>   } = qs.parse(body)

Reviewer 2: Can we dump `qs` here? This would be a good opportunity to show off [`request.formData`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Body/formData) which does the same thing:

```js
const body = await request.formData();

const fields = {
  "First Name": body.get("first_name"), 
  "Last Name": body.get("last_name"),
  "Email": body.get("email"),
  "Phone Number": body.get("phone"),
  "Subject": body.get("subject"),
  "Message": body.get("message"),
}

await createAirtableRecord({ fields })
```

or

```js
const body = await request.formData();

const {
  first_name,
  last_name,
  email,
  phone,
  subject,
  message
} = Object.fromEntries(body)

// ...
```

To set these, we need to configure two types of _environment variables_ inside of our serverless function. For any variables that should remain private, we'll use Wrangler's `secret` command, which can encrypt and store environment variables for use in your function, without revealing them to users. 

Run `wrangler secret put`, passing `AIRTABLE_API_KEY` as the name of your secret:

```sh
---
header: Setting the AIRTABLE_API_KEY secret with Wrangler
---
$ wrangler secret put AIRTABLE_API_KEY
Enter the secret text you would like assigned to the variable AIRTABLE_API_KEY on the script named airtable-form-handler:
******
🌀  Creating the secret for script name airtable-form-handler
✨  Success! Uploaded secret AIRTABLE_API_KEY.
```

The _Airtable base ID_ and _table name_ are values that can be publicly shared in places like GitHub. We can use Wrangler's `vars` feature to pass public environment variables from `wrangler.toml`. Add a `vars` object at the end of your `wrangler.toml` file, as seen below:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
highlight: [7]
---
name = "workers-airtable-form"
type = "webpack"

account_id = "yourAccountId"
workers_dev = true

> vars = { AIRTABLE_BASE_ID = "exampleBaseId", AIRTABLE_TABLE_NAME = "Form Submissions" }

Reviewer 2: Can we make this multi-line? Dunno if the highlight directive allows it

Author: will try!

✨  Successfully published your script to
 https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev
```

You'll notice that your function is deployed to a unique URL—for instance, `https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev`. This represents the first part of your front-end form's `action` attribute—the second part is the _path_ for our form handler, which is `/submit`. In your front-end UI, configure your `form` tag as seen below:

```html
<form action="https://workers-airtable-form.signalnerve.workers.dev/submit" method="POST" class="...">
<!-- The rest of your HTML form -->
```

Once you've deployed your new form (we recommend [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.dev) for that), you should be able to submit a new form submission, and see the value show up immediately in Airtable:

![Example GIF of complete Airtable and serverless function integration](./example.gif)

## Conclusion

With that, you've created a Workers serverless function that can accept form submissions, and persist them to Airtable. Along the way, we've learned how to parse form data, set up environment variables, and use the `fetch` API to make requests to external services outside of our Workers function.

> You can find the source for this project—both the front-end UI, as well as the serverless function that communicates with Airtable—[on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the source for this project—both the front-end UI and the serverless function that communicates with Airtable—[on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-airtable-form).
```
